That was a lot of talking about observables but now we have an example of an observable and how
it behaves under the hood.
However I know that this can look even more confusing and you might ask yourself, well when do I write
this code
because that's nice about the interval but come on, I don't need that interval that often
in my application and you would be right and by the way if you needed one, you'd of course use the built
in interval function and not build your own one.
So what's the idea behind that example?
The idea is that you understand what happens inside of an observable. Whenever you subscribe and you
set up your different handler functions here, RxJS in the end merges them all together into
one object and passes that object, the observer to the observable and inside of the observable, it will
then interact with the observer and let the observer know about new data and errors and so on
and that is how your functions get called.
However, you rarely, very very very rarely build your own observables.
More often, you use observables that come with libraries like Angular, like the route params observable
we already used. Under the hood, that in the end is a custom observable built by the Angular team but
of course you just use it like that.
You rarely build your own ones but still, it's super important to understand how they work under the
hood and in the end, they all work a bit like that.
They wrap some event source,
in this case it's set interval,
in other cases it could be an Ajax request or a click listener or whatever it is and they give you data
or possibly also errors or the complete event and you will mostly use subscribe and pass in functions
that deal with that data or those errors.